---
title: Retro | April 02, 2022

summary: |
  Retrospecting on one's choices and consequences of those choices
  is the only way that we can grow. I have no idea what I am doing or
  even where we should be going and I think that's okay. This document
  is my first attempt at documenting my personal retros in order to
  keep myself accountable and encourge change.
---

## Introspection

> What internally is going on?
>
> What internally are we dealing with?

I am happy, not satisfied but content. I wake up some days anxious but nothing
a warm shower and focusing my thoughts doesn't usually alleviate. I have been
less, not afraid but apprehensive, about work. The times when I have had to
interact with others, I have felt confident and sure of myself.

I find myself often thinking deeply about nothing. My thoughts cycling around
a drain until, sometimes minutes other times hours later, I realize I have been
brooding, ruminating on a phantasm. These cycles have been getting shorter and
less affective than usual but they are there.

Overall, my internal status is great. I have had the normal troubles of life
but at this moment, looking inward, I feel like I am fine.

## Extrospection

> What externally is affecting us?
>
> What externally are we affecting?

I have friends that support me, a wife that enriches me, and a family that emboldens me.
My life is blessed. My financial situation is fine, my health is fine.

I had to go to the dentist and my gums are doing much better than last years. This
has made me feel great about not only my choices but about my current situation.

Logan had to go to the vet and has been nursing his shoulder. This has freaked me out.
It has made me fully realize that he will die, sooner than later. This, even now,
freaks me out. My stomach is empty, my head spinning. Looking at the little guy on my
floor, always a tail away from Dad, I know that that flesh will die and it hurts me. It
hurts me even worse to know that he's sick and hobbles around time to time.

I am worried that I will not know what to do; that I will prolong his suffering just so
that I don't let him go; that I will let him go because I'm worried for his suffering but
he wanted to go on.

My friend broke his leg in two places and I am worried about him. He luckily works
from home on a computer so he can still help his family but any broken bone let alone one
that needs pins and surgery is scary. I am totally fine but I sympathize with him and his
family.

The cat knocked down my favorite plant. This is trivial and I was upset for a fleeting moment
but, with the help of my wife, the mess was cleaned and hopefully the plant saved. I didn't
let the cat in my room for a few minutes or maybe an hour. I was upset. But. Thinking back at
it, and even at the time I knew, it was a stupid thing to be upset about. There was no _intent_
behind its action. That anger quickly faded.

## Retropsection

> Are these two benefiting us?
>
> Are these two benefiting the Group?
>
> Are these two benefiting us more than the Group?

I feel that my internal outlook is benefiting for sure. Having an internal state at peace lets
me focus on being productive, on helping others, and achieving demoralizing goals.

I feel that my external stimuli are helping me, even the ones that make me worried and sad. Because
I am so blessed and I can not worry about _pretty much anything_, I am free to explore, think, and
just _be_. This external stimuli is not only positive in almost all experiences but those that _hurt_
like my worry for Logan, are _building me up_ and are _helping me grow_.

I am able to save $500/mo in my IRA and hopefully over $1k/mo in the house savings budget. Because
I am able to do that, future me will be able to move out by the end of the lease here. Future me
will also be able to earn equity in a place and have the ability and option to rent out or sell
for more mobilty and security.

Because I am able to save and not worry about life, I am able to bless others in my Group. I was able
to take everyone out for a fun lunch after my race, we were able to help one of the Group pay their
rent, and countless other things that the Group has done that I have been a part of. Not only financially,
but because I am happy and I feel confident in myself, I am able to emotionally support the Group.

I need to make sure that I am not taking from the Group. I have a tendency to focus on _me_ when things
are going well and focus on _why it's not my fault_ when things aren't. I need to point my focus towards
how I can contribute to the Group. 7 years of surplus to help with 7 years of famine.

I am comfortable now but I am not actively making progress towards any goals other than "stay current". I
am able to relax and enjoy myself. I have earned that and there is nothing wrong with where I am. Being
content would be a good lesson for me to learn. However, I haven't learned it yet and I don't see any harm
in focusing on lofty goals. If we actively pursue them.

A long term goal is to live in Portland, OR. It is highly expensive and there is income tax so we need to
plan accordingly. I am actively making progress on that goal by

- Saving money to

  - get used to living on less
  - invest in property
  - learn financial habits
  - have emergency fund

- Working with HR, an accountant, and a financial advisor to

  - understand tax implications of moving
  - understand take-home pay implications
  - understand ISOs/options

Another long term goal is to not make a wage but to be my own boss. I have not made much progress on this directly
but have made tangental progress

- Built UI for small AI startup trying to gain experience being contract
- Working on this personal blog to build an image of being transparent and to build confidence and trust

I need to actively _do something_ to make this happen. I have the skills, my life is good, and I am able to make
large bets that fail without hurting my future self too badly or without taking from the Group at all. I am not sure
why I am not putting in the work.

Is the goal clearly defined? Is it _clear to me today_ how I will _know that I succeeded?_ I do not think so. Just
like when I started my first "real coding job" I had a clear direct goal, I need to focus and make a clear direct one
for me to focus on. This is not the place for it and it may need its own retro.

## Action Items

- [] Clearly write down the goal

  - How will we know that it is done?
  - What will we be able to do once it is done?
  - What will be different about us or our life?

- [] Clearly write down the next step

  - What is the _one thing_ keeping us from this goal?
  - What is the _easiest thing_ keeping us from this goal?
  - What are the _many many things_?
  - What is the _next thing_?

- [] Track goal progress
  - Somewhere on `timonapath.com`
  - Transparent and accountable
